In the last lecture we made sure that we can click the map and also then center to it
but now I want to render a marker at the position where we clicked, so that we actually have some visual
feedback about well where we're currently at. For this,
I will add a new property to my state here and I'll add it next to focus location not inside of it, I'll
name it location chosen because I only want to display a marker if the user did pick a location,
so initially I'll set it to false, I'll set it to true here in pick location handler then, so location chosen is
set to true here because now we did pick one and I want to use that to determine whether to render a
marker or not.
So in the render function, I'll add a marker variable which I'll set to null initially and then I'll add
an if check where I see if this state location chosen is true because only then I want to show the marker,
if it is true, the marker will be set to map view
and now there's a subcomponent so to say .marker.
It's a self-closing component and this marker now simply needs one property, the coordinate where it should
be rendered.
Now the coordinate here should also be the focus position,
so I'll bind it to this state focus location.
Now actually the coordinate only needs a latitude and longitude, doesn't care about the longitude delta
and the latitude delta
but we can still bind it to focus location because there we got latitude and longitude and it will just ignore
the other two items.
So therefore now we have our coordinate, our marker here set up, we can now render this marker inside
our map view
and that's super trivial.
We turned a self-closing map view into a non self-closing element like this and then simply in-between,
we render our marker variable and that's either null,
in which case we won't see anything or it is the marker.
So with that,
let's try this out, maybe on iOS this time,
let's quickly log in here with some credentials of your choice
and now if I click on the map, not only does it center, it also places a marker and the same of course
on Android,
just for completeness sake let's also view this there if it there also works as it should.
If we log in and we go there and we click on the map, we see a Google maps marker in there.
So this is working,
that is how easy you can add markers and you can actually do a lot about these markers.
Check out the official docs and there not the map view element but the marker element.
There you see it's for mapview.marker, what we just used and you see you can configure this,
you can add a title, a description, you can add a lot of things and really configure this and fine tune this to
your need so that your map snippet looks exactly the way you want it to look.
I'm going to stick to the set up we have here
and in the next step, I instead want to make sure that we can smoothly animate to the picked location.